---
layout: sips
title: SIP Meeting Minutes - 24th September 2018

partof: minutes
---

# Minutes

The following agenda was distributed to attendees:

|Topic|Reviewers| Accepted/Rejected |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Summary of the Contributors thread [“Proposal to remove XML literals from the language”](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-remove-xml-literals-from-the-language/2146) | Sébastien Doeraene | Pending
| Summary of the Contributors thread [“Proposal to remove the procedure Syntax”](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-remove-procedure-syntax/2143) | Josh Suereth | Pending |
| [Proposal to add Intersection Types to the Language](https://dotty.epfl.ch/docs/reference/intersection-types.html) | Martin Odersky | Discussion opened until the 25th October 2018, comments welcomed [here](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-add-intersection-types-to-the-language/2351) |
| [Proposal to Add Union Types to the Language](https://dotty.epfl.ch/docs/reference/union-types.html) | Martin Odersky | Discussion opened until the 25th October 2018, comments welcomed [here](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-add-union-types-to-the-language/2352) | 
| [Proposal to add Implicit Function Types to the Language](https://dotty.epfl.ch/docs/reference/implicit-function-types.html) | Martin Odersky | Discussion opened until the 25th October 2018, comments welcomed [here](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-add-implicit-function-types-to-the-language/2353) |
| [Proposal to add Dependent Function Types to the Language](https://dotty.epfl.ch/docs/reference/dependent-function-types.html) | Martin Odersky | Discussion opened until the 25th October 2018, comments welcomed [here](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-add-dependent-function-types-to-the-language/2354/1) |
| [Proposal to add Trait Parameters to the Language](https://dotty.epfl.ch/docs/reference/trait-parameters.html) | Martin Odersky | Discussion opened until the 25th October 2018, comments welcomed [here](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/proposal-to-add-trait-parameters-to-the-language/2356) |

Jorge Vicente Cantero was the Process Lead and Darja Jovanovic was the secretary.


## Date and Location
The meeting took place on the 24th September 2018 at 5 PM CEST via Google Hangouts at EPFL in Lausanne, Switzerland as well as other locations.

[Watch on Scala Center YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/tEb4UF6RJrM)


Minutes were taken by Darja Jovanovic.

## Attendees

* Martin Odersky ([@odersky](https://github.com/odersky)), EPFL
* Jorge Vicente Cantero ([@jvican](https://github.com/jvican)), Process Lead
* Seth Tisue ([@SethTisue](https://github.com/SethTisue)), Lightbend
* Iulian Dragos ([@dragos](https://github.com/dragos)), Triplequote
* Eugene Burmako ([@xeno-by](https://github.com/xeno-by)), Twitter
* Josh Suereth ([@jsuereth](https://github.com/jsuereth)), Independent
* Sébastien Doeraene ([@sjrd](https://github.com/sjrd)), Scala Center
* Adriaan Moors ([@adriaanm](https://github.com/adriaanm)), Lightbend
* Miles Sabin ([@milessabin](https://github.com/milessabin)), Independent
* Darja Jovanovic ([@darjutak](https://github.com/darjutak)), Scala Center

## Not present
* Heather Miller ([@heathermiller](https://github.com/heathermiller)), CMU
